the city for young people can be
enclosed something with a lot of
pressure maybe a lot of ganja as well we
have so many things you're not allowed
to do this kind of context can be very
very hard when you depart for an
obstacle is not an obstacle it's not a
barrier it's not something is going to
stop you it's the opposite with some
things going to help you to go forward
every element in the city you can use to
do something you'll be able to develop
so many things the confidence with
yourself the confidence with other
elements and maybe way of freedom
because you feel free with yourself and
free in your mind because you're going
to develop your creativity as well
parkour comes from the French word
parkour which means course or way it's
about finding a path or a course through
your environment the skills you'd need
if you're being chased or you were
pursuing someone people who practice
parkour are called tracers or free
runners we started off in France it's
about 15-20 years ago in a small suburb
and they're a group of kids taking their
childhood games more seriously than the
others spread to the UK about three
years ago I think there are people doing
parkour all over the world now and in
England it's really taken off because of
a television programs and things like
that one of the problems with the media
attention that they like to
sensationalize is they often put it up
on rooftops and a lot of these clicks
ear and they try to imitate it
immediately without any kind of training
some of the injuries that you can pick
up great very serious and often the kids
seeing people up on rooftops think that
you need to copy this but it's
definitely not
a lot of people have this image that
we're big risk takers that we do it for
the adrenaline rush but that's not at
all true and the important thing about
parkour is it's a discipline it does
take years to learn these skills a lot
of young people practicing parkour get
in trouble with trespassing being caught
on roofs but there's no need to be doing
this at all you can find safe places
that are excellent for parkour all over
the place
urban free-flow are trying to tackle the
problem trying to re-educate people
about what parkour really is and we're
working together with Westminster City
Council doing workshops and a youth
academy and going to schools my
community sports officer at Westminster
sports unit just part of what's the City
Council I run a program called positive
futures which is a sports based social
inclusion program jump we played eight
to nineteen aims to reduce crime and
social behavior and drugs on students
working in partnership with parkour and
urban free flow we actually achieve that
sixty nine percent reduction in crime in
the locality of the three programs we
also use it to address the no ball games
culture that we have in London so they
can use their environment locally to
exercise and be physically active today
young people involved in parkour I would
say around 500 and that's growing every
day the idea is it's new zealand roll
the reason we're doing these workshops
with the young ones is to try to educate
them properly so they can train safely
because they are going to do this sort
of stuff they'll see it on TV and in the
media they are gonna mimic it we want
them to mimic it in a safe way when you
do parkour you have to learn about
yourself you have to use your fear to
become more focused to be able to go
further more you know your body more you
know how you can move your game to
become more creative now you can't
really avoid its minor injuries to cuts
bruises York's brain here and there
that's going to happen but if you train
properly you should be able to avoid
serious injuries you must win your
training rolls consider with this
outside you've got to build up
physically you've got to be conditioned
you have to be strong dynamic and very
resilient with your muscles as your
ability goes your vision just expands
and then wherever you go anytime today
you're always doing things as as a
playground be very very respectful with
the people who very very respectfully
this young
if you break something we're going to
break our playground first undying our
great teachers they push you a bit hard
sometimes but is because they won't used
to do something they want you taking
something you do a warm-up and you feel
tired and it makes you think well I
don't really want to be feeling like
that so maybe if I practice and practice
I'll be to the point where I'll be able
to just do it without hesitating and
without fighting hence one of the
workshops it's so hardcore that the next
week you can hardly walk
and because just so unfit instead of
kind of free run is more like free
falling for me at the moment there's
like the sandwiches it's better to splat
on the mat than food dead meat on the
street training gets harder than
actually doing this when you see on the
videos you think the guy just thought of
it and they've done it but actually you
don't see how hard you work for it I
really expected it to be competitive and
just it is it isn't at all they're all
the team together working to get the
best that you can be before I started
going to the classes I used to practice
on the streets and I never used to do a
probably marked or anything like that
and I really damaged my knees and it'll
build her for weeks and weeks and weeks
I've been injured before my back on my
head the main thing is when you get
injured you have to think how can I
prevent this from happening again where
there's not a lot of activity for young
people to get involved with parkour can
really like help out I escaped and it's
the same kind of idea that you're
finding things that are mundane and
themselves
that you can turn into to playgrounds
you know the adrenaline buzz is just
different from any other sport activity
that you could do and it's just the
feeling of knowing that you succeeded at
saying that you couldn't do just through
practicing and once you've done it it's
just the good sense of achievement you
can push yourself in this area I'm
finding confidence and other areas of
life as well
there's a quote Nelson Mandela used
which was sport has the power to change
the world and I think any sport can do
that particularly parkour I think it has
qualities that no other sport has it's
very cool very urban and it's great
engaging and that's why we're using it
in Westminster I'd like to see more
events that people can go to be great to
see someone in a business suit just kind
of vaulting over a park bench or
something
I want to be able to step out of my door
and see people playing and training if
it continues to be like this then it
will it will be quite substantial hobby
for a lot of people and it'd be quite
safe hobby and it will be looked upon by
everybody else is quite an okay thing to
do instead of people filing upon it
parkour gives you a sense of freedom
with young people and older people and
everyone to experience that but don't
even have to do it you can watch and
still get a sense of that freedom but
it's an amazing thing